# Supervised-M.L-regression---Retail-Sales-prediction
capstone project on Retail sales Prediction using Regression
Problem Statement-Rossmann operates over 3,000 drug stores in 7 European countries. Currently, Rossmann store managers are tasked with predicting their daily sales for up to six weeks in advance. Store sales are influenced by many factors, including promotions, competition, school and state holidays, seasonality, and locality. With thousands of individual managers predicting sales based on their unique circumstances, the accuracy of results can be quite varied. You are provided with historical sales data for 1,115 Rossmann stores. The task is to forecast the "Sales" column for the test set. Note that some stores in the dataset were temporarily closed for refurbishment. Data Description Rossmann Stores Data.csv - historical data including Sales store.csv - supplemental information about the stores Data fields Most of the fields are self-explanatory. Id - an Id that represents a (Store, Da,,te) duple within the set Store - a unique Id for each store Sales - the turnover for any given day (Dependent Variable) Customers - the number of customers on a given day
Conclusion-As we could see, the Sales column has 172817 rows with a single sale. We next tried to train our model using a new dataframe that had 0 sales rows removed from it. We employed several algorithms and obtained an accuracy score of about 74%.
The entire dataset (with Sales = 0 rows) piqued our interest. Therefore, we used multiple strategies to train a new model, and the accuracy we obtained was far higher than that of the old model at 98%.
Because the dataset comprises 172817 rows, which is rather huge, we concluded that eliminating the sales=0 rows would really remove a lot of information. As a result, we opted not to remove those values.We used the Random Forest model, gradient boosting techniques like adaboost, and Xgboost to achieve the best rmpse score possible.
concluded.
